Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
Good morning.
Let's take our Bibles and
get ready to get into God's word.
I look around, and many of you are back from vacation.
I just want to say, you left me behind.
There was a movie made after my life.
And so I'm glad to have you back.
It's been an amazing summer.
But yeah, many of you have been traveling, and you're back in church on a regular basis.
And I'm so thankful for that.
Just want to open up with a story that something happened this past week that was truly impactful in my life.
probably even more so in the person that I'm going to mention to you.
They don't go to our church.
They went to our church previous to here.
And I got an email from them, and it was their name.
And the name kind of struck me a little bit, caused me to think some thoughts, like, is this real?
Or is this an AI thing?
You ever had one of those?
You think, is this a scam?
Because the name was a very famous person on friends.
The TV show, if you remember that show.
And so I'm looking at this email and it's talking about how God has moved in their life and how they were asking the Lord to be able to hear his voice in a very profound and deep way.
And then the Lord said, 324.
That's what they heard this person.
And 324 was meant for them to go back in March 24th of 2024 and listen to a message that was preached
So they ended up going back and listening to that message and watching that message.
And all of a sudden within five minutes, the Holy Spirit just overwhelmed them and they were weeping.
And they said that they were delivered from a stronghold, from something that was part of their life for a long time.
And then God led them to that message that was preached previously over a year.
God can do amazing things through the Word of God.
And so we're going to get into God's word now, and we're going to believe that He has something for us this morning, but also for someone who might be watching, maybe a year from now.
And God's going to say to them, I want you to go back and listen to a message that was preached.
So they decided to try to figure out what was on that day when it was preached, and it was one of the hardest days of their life, they said.
God knows exactly what we need specifically.
Is that not true?
And so we're gonna open God's words.
So take your Bible, if you would, and go to the book of Acts chapter 19, Acts chapter 19.
And then we're gonna find our way over to Ephesians chapter three.
This is Vision Sunday, and I'm gonna preach a message on vision.
This is the beginning of a new ministry year at Crossway.
And for Crossway, Milford, there are a lot of new initiatives that are coming.
And so we're excited about that.
I hope that you'll be excited about that and plug in where you can.
Tomorrow night is a new initiative.
It's first Monday and Pastor Dave Ripper is going to be here and he's going to be going through his book.
And I read this book probably in two days.
And I read it sometimes early in the morning, like four or five in the morning.
God was using Dave's book to touch me in very profound and deep ways.
So I'm excited to have Dave Ripper here tomorrow night for the next four Sundays or four Mondays to open up to us how to experience scripture as a disciple of Jesus.
And his hero was Dallas Willard and I've read most of Dallas Willard's books too and they've blessed me and this is going to be a tremendous, tremendous four weeks.
There's still room.
If you want to jump on board on Monday nights for the next four weeks, just let us know.
But tomorrow night we'll be here together.
I've titled this message and it's a standalone message.
Who is able to do far more?
Now that looks like a question.
It's actually a statement.
But you can look at it in two different ways.
And so I did that intentionally.
I want you to ask yourself this question.
It's in the title of the message.
Who is able to do far more?
So let's take our Bibles and go to Acts chapter 19.
Acts chapter 19.
Now I took the title from Ephesians 3, 20.
If you could bring that verse up on the screen, you'll see it here.
Paul said this to the Ephesian Christians, verse 20.
Now to him who is what?
Abel.
Who is Abel?
You are I.
God is Abel.
And this is who Paul's talking about.
He's talking about God is able to do far more abundantly.
There's the title of the message.
then all that we could ask or think according to the power at work within us.
There's a power that's inside of us that's not of ourselves.
It's a power that comes from the Holy Spirit, and we're gonna talk about that.
It's a power called the unction of God or the baptism of the Holy Spirit.
Now you might heard that term from our charismatic and Pentecostal brothers, but I believe that that term is accurate biblically that we can say we need to be baptized in the Holy Spirit.
Some would say that the Holy Spirit would come down on you, and I believe that.
Some would say the Holy Spirit is inside of you and well up like a spring or a fountain of water, and I believe that too.
So the Holy Spirit and that power inside of us comes from within us, it comes from over us, and it comes from around us.
That's the work of the Spirit of God.
We're gonna get back into Ephesians chapter three in a moment, but I wanna spend a little bit of time with some backstory
Because when Paul prays the prayer in Ephesians 3, which we'll examine on Vision Sunday, it's a vision, we're going to also look at what happened previous to the prayer.
And to do that, we're going to have to look at Acts chapter 19.
And so this is where the church in Ephesus began.
Of course, Luke is the author and Luke is a historian.
And he is accurate.
He's not just an accurate historian.
He is by the Holy Spirit, very accurate.
In fact, the Bible is inspired.
It's an errand, which means it's without err, it's infallible, which means it's completely believable and trustworthy.
So he's not just a historian.
He's a Holy Spirit inspired historian.
Does that make any sense?
It's supernatural.
The Bible is supernatural.
He's going to give us some history here into the church in Ephesus.
And it's a very important
foundation to understand.
Look at verse one, Luke says this, and it happened that while Paulos was in Corinth, that Paul passed through the inward parts of the country and came to Ephesus.
Now why didn't he take the usual route?
Why is he going through the inland parts of Asia Minor?
Well, I think he wanted to get there and he was intentionally going to Ephesus because in Ephesus there were going to be some things that are going to happen.
There was going to be a church planted.
There's going to be ministry.
There's going to be deliverance.
There's going to be demons that will be confronted.
And we'll look a little bit more at that.
Now, what I'm going to do is do a commentary as we roll down through Acts 19.
We won't spend a lot of time.
I just want you to get a picture of what was going on in this great, great city.
It's the leading city in the Roman Empire.
In fact, it's the richest region in the Roman Empire where Ephesus was located.
Now keep that in mind because we're going to see Paul say something in Ephesians 3 about riches.
So when Paul writes by the Spirit of God, he wants to connect in a way that's relevant.
And he's going to do that because these believers had come out of certain backgrounds, certain practices, certain beliefs.
And so when we read Ephesians 3, we need to read it through the grade of Acts chapter 19.
And these believers who got saved out of paganism, out of idolatry, out of debauchery,
I mean, these people came out of darkness into God's marvelous light.
And how many people know that you were once in darkness and God brought you into His marvelous light?
Now, you weren't bounding down to a stone statue or at the temple of Artemis or all of these other kinds of things, but we were idolatchers in different kinds of ways.
There wasn't too much of an amen on that one, but that's okay.
Ephesus is a city of about 250,000 people.
Now, this is a significant city.
The only other two cities that are larger than Ephesus at the time is Rome and Alexandria and Egypt.
Can I give you a reference point?
Nashua is what?
About 100,000.
This is a major significant city that God wants to transform with the gospel, with Jesus Christ.
Paul's in 18 months in Corinth.
From Corinth, he stops over in Jerusalem just briefly, and then he heads to Ephesus.
And when he gets there, he sees some people that are believers.
They link up and they start this church.
They start doing ministry together.
In fact, Paul would teach from 11 o'clock to 4 o'clock every day.
He would go to the synagogue.
That's where he would start.
Then he transitioned over into like a town hall and he would teach every single day the gospel of Jesus.
Well, the reaction of all of that was church planting.
A lot of churches came out of the church in Ephesus.
The Colossian church came out of that.
The church in Laodicea, do you remember the church in Laodicea?
You ever heard of that one?
Right?
That's a connection to the church in Ephesus, Pergamum, that church, Smyrna, and other churches.
They would meet in houses, they wouldn't meet like we're meeting now.
Most of the early church met in houses, they would meet in the temple, large group, but mostly it was house church.
So if you're familiar with the house church movement, you're looking at something very first century.
And I was part of the house church movement for a while.
And I think that God is doing amazing things.
in the house church move.
But this is where they would meet.
It's a very religiously pluralistic, meaning many gods in Ephesus.
In fact, there were 50 gods that would be worshiped in and around the city of Ephesus.
There's Greek gods like Zeus.
You might have heard of Zeus.
How about Isis?
Have you ever heard of Isis?
That's an Egyptian god, but that was worshiped in Ephesus.
I mean, this is a very pluralistic, very religious city.
The cult of Artemis is there.
That would be like the savings of loan
The funding of the city of Ephesus came in through the cult of Artemis.
It had a reputation of being full of magic, occult, and Satanism.
So these people had a fear of demonic activity.
That might not mean anything to you if you've not had any encounters with demons I have.
And so I've known Christians through the years that have had encounters with demonic activity.
And so if you haven't, praise God for that.
But there are many Christians that have.
These believers came out of that lifestyle.
but they were delivered.
They were freed.
They were born again.
They were growing in grace and in knowledge of Christ.
It's an amazing thing.
Now watch this.
I'm going to read just briefly and then we'll jump over to Ephesians 3, the prayer that Paul prayed.
He goes on, verse 2, or Luke goes on, and he said to them, did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?
And they said, no, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.
Notice that the church is progressing.
Notice that there are seasons.
Notice that there is a falling of the Holy Spirit or an empowering of the Holy Spirit.
This is all that happens in our Christian life as well.
Do you think that you have everything together at conversion?
Now you have your complete in Christ.
Colossians talks about that, but that doesn't mean our understanding is complete and perfect.
And so some of us are still growing.
I know some of you have arrived.
Praise God for that.
Paul said, I haven't even arrived.
That's what he said about himself.
So I know that I'm not going to arrive in this lifetime.
So we're in process.
And this is what's going on here, verse three.
And he said, into what then?
Were you baptized?
And they said in the John's baptism, and Paul said, John baptized with the baptism of repentance, telling the people to believe in the one who was to come.
And after him, that is Jesus.
And on hearing this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
And when Paul laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they began speaking in tongues and prophesying.
And they were about 12 men and all.
And then he entered the synagogue.
That's where he would teach from 11 to four.
And for three months, boldly reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
Notice the boldness.
I love this about the apostle Paul.
Notice the persuasion.
All preaching needs to be persuasive.
I will try to persuade you.
I will not hold back.
I want to persuade you that Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven.
And you're thinking, well, no, it's, it's, it's, uh, you know, Muhammad and it's, no, it's not.
No, it's not.
And I will do my best to persuade you that Jesus and his name only is salvation.
There is no other name given among men under heaven.
Whereby we must be saved.
So Paul is persuading here.
He is bold.
This is what he's doing.
Now, remember, he's doing it in the city of Ephesus.
That's not easy.
You think Nash was a hard place to try to be a Christian or Milford?
Not even close.
Some people, oh, the modern days, they're harder than, oh, they're not.
No, they're not.
This is wickedness.
You think, well, our country's wicked.
Well, sure it is.
But I really will contend that the early church was facing wickedness that exceeded ours.
It might not be as expansive because of technology and all that looking, but it was deep darkness.
No doubt, deep darkness.
Anyway, let's keep going.
Watch what happens, verse 11.
And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul so that even handkerchiefs or aprons that have touched his skin were carried away to the sick.
That's where some of our Pentecostal and charismatic brothers will say.
You know, they have the handkerchiefs and they're, you know, the throwing and touching and healings going on and all.
I don't want to debate that.
That's not part of this message.
I'm glad to have a conversation about that.
But I do believe this text is accurate that they're even at the handkerchiefs that touch the Apostle Paul.
Once they had contact with them, Paul, there would be healings.
Do you believe that could happen?
Yeah.
Do you think there's distortions of that in modern Christianity?
Probably.
I would guess.
But that doesn't mean that the word of God isn't right here and what Paul was experiencing was inaccurate.
Watch this, this is unbelievable.
Verse 13, then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists undertook to invoke the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits saying, I adjure you by Jesus whom Paul proclaims, I had a kid years ago, he says, I have a demon in me and he's against you.
This is what he said to me.
I have a demon inside of me, his name's Michael.
I was like, Michael, I heard Michael the Archangel.
Hey, if that's the case, that'd be awesome.
but demon, no, but there was some real darkness going on, real demons.
This is what's going on here.
The sons of a Jewish high priest named Skiva were doing this, but the evil spirit answered them, Jesus, I know, and Paul, I recognize, but who are you?
And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, mastered all of them and overpowered them so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
And this became known to all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks and fear fell upon them all.
And the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled.
Also, many of those who were now believers came confessing and divulging their practices.
Witchcraft, occult.
All of the pagan practices.
This is what's going on.
Verse 19, a number of those who had practiced magic, arts brought their books together and burned them.
What a bonfire.
This was incredible.
This wasn't s'mores.
This wasn't about marshmallows, norche.
Hershey's chocolate.
This is about their demonic materials that they're throwing into piles.
And they're burning them.
The Word of God, the Lord, the Lord continued to increase and prevail, mightily, verse 20.
Watch this, verse 21.
Now, after these events, Paul resolved in the spirit to pass through Macedonia in the Kia and go to Jerusalem saying, after I've been there, I must also see Rome.
And having been sent into Macedonia, two of his helpers, Timothy and Rastis, he himself stayed in Asia for a while.
Well, I'm not going to read all, it'll take us forever.
We'll never get to Ephesians 3.
But what ends up happening is a riot breaks out in Ephesus.
Can you pull up that slide that's pictures of ancient Ephesus?
Notice the theater there.
It seats about 25,000 people.
Paul's in that actual theater.
That's where he's at.
So if we got on a plane and we traveled to Ephesus, we could be where Paul was in this text.
25,000 people riot against him.
The apostles were like, you can't go in there.
We got to get out of here.
You can't go in there because they're after you.
I get one person mad at me and I'm just ready to run and hide.
Can you imagine 25,000 people all at one time that want you dead?
This is amazing.
Paul loves the Ephesian church.
What he's gonna do is he's gonna pray for the Ephesian believers.
They have come out of this lifestyle.
They've come out of it in a very dramatic, dramatic way.
Now let's go to Ephesians.
Chapter one, I'm just gonna do a little bit more commentary and I promise to give you some application principles out of that vision.
that prayer that Paul prays in Ephesians 3, 14, down to verse 21.
So take your Bibles and go to Ephesians chapter one.
It's amazing letter, I've gone through it before.
I would encourage you to read it.
Verse one, Paul, an apostle of Christ, by the will of God, this is chapter one, verse one, to the saints who are in Ephesus, and our faithful in Christ Jesus, grace to you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
He loves the Ephesian Christians.
He went through so much for them.
And so he's going to write a letter.
He's writing from Rome.
He's on house arrest for the gospel.
He would die.
He would eventually be beheaded for the gospel.
He's in Rome.
He loves the believers.
They need to be growing.
They need to be growing in grace and in knowledge of Jesus Christ.
They need to be strong.
They came out of this background and so they need to keep maturing.
They need to keep making progress in their Christian life.
So he writes this book called Ephesians.
He loves them.
He's talking about the spiritual blessings all throughout chapter one.
He mentions election.
There's one that causes Christians to get a little bit of ruffled feathers there.
But elections in the Bible, predestination's in the Bible.
It's all there in chapter one.
That's a message that will be a standalone someday, but not for now.
If you have questions about does God choose people or not, the question will easily be answered, yes.
He chooses people.
Does he choose everybody?
Let's talk about that privately.
That's gonna be a little bit more of a discussion.
This topic is a big deal.
Chapter one, he handles all of the spiritual blessings, which include election.
It includes an inheritance.
Did you know that you're receiving an inheritance?
Or you already have?
Some of you have received an inheritance, a financial inheritance from somebody, you know, aunt, so and so, or uncle, so and so, or maybe it was a parent that left you an inheritance.
And you've been blessed, but this inheritance is staggering.
It's staggering.
He talks about it in chapter one.
Chapter two, he moves into the gospel.
He talks about sinfulness and man, we need to know where we came from.
And he does.
He takes those Ephesians right back to who they were before Jesus saved them.
And it's by grace alone through Christ alone, by faith.
in Christ alone, by the way.
He takes that all the way down.
Then he starts talking about the church.
He talks about Gentiles and Jews being together.
This is the mystery in chapters three.
We're not gonna go through any of this.
I'm just giving you some highlights before we get to the prayer.
And so what Paul does is he talks about this racism.
You think that racism is bad today?
It's a thousand times worse in the early church between Jew and Gentile.
The gospel reconciles them.
And if we don't think that the gospel can't reconcile what's going on today in our world, then we're not believing in a biblical gospel.
The gospel is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe.
Jew and Gentile.
Why does he do that?
And why does he talk about it here?
Because there was some serious racism, Jew and Gentile.
Gentiles were in Ephesus, lots of them.
Jews were coming in and then there were issues.
issues between them.
And in Christ, there should be no division.
There should be reconciliation.
That's how powerful the gospel is.
So what's the answer for today?
Is it politics?
And I'm not going to get political.
I never have in the pulpit.
But I do want to say this.
The answer is not politics.
The answer is a person.
His name is Jesus.
And it's the gospel of repentance unto life.
And when that is boldly proclaimed and when it's lived out in the church, we will see what the early church saw.
The world will be turned upside down.
This is what happens.
It's a great book.
So Paul gets to the end of this chapter in verses 14 down to verse 21.
Thereabouts, right?
Chapter three, and there's a prayer.
You can tell there's something going to transition because verse 14, it says, for this reason.
Do you see that?
For this reason.
If you go back up to verse one, he begins the chapter for this reason.
And then he does it back here too earlier, but we won't look at that.
So here's the prayer.
This is where we're going to go with this.
Now, chapter one to three of Ephesians, we could call it the academics.
Chapter four to chapter six, we could call the application or you could call it like this.
Chapter one to three of Ephesians is doctrine.
Chapter four to six is duty.
So he divides the whole book six chapters in half.
He gives them truth.
Now he's going to talk about how it should be transformed.
How do you take the gospel and put it into everyday practice?
That's Ephesians.
Kind of in a nutshell.
I'm just going to look at verses 14 down to verse 21.
But before I look at those verses, let's look at the end of the prayer.
Here's what Paul says, verse 20.
Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think far more.
Now watch this, I gotta get you back in the Ephesus.
Because you can't leave ancient Ephesus.
When he says a God who does far more, who is he comparing the 50 gods
that they believed in.
Remember, they're like, no, these gods, these pagan gods that I've believed in, that I've given my life for.
No, no, no, Paul says there's a God who can do far more than your 50 gods in Ephesus.
What a word that is for us to tell people that we love, because they're turned into other gods.
They are.
And we can say to them, no, no, you don't have to.
over here, God can do far more than you could have ever imagined with those gods that you've been living for and following.
Does that make any sense?
It's the same thing here.
So the big vision of the text is this, see Paul says it, that you may be filled with the fullness of God, that you may be filled, you'll see that in a moment, that you may be filled.
Think of that word filled, don't lose that, put it in there.
that you may be filled, and then this other word, fullness, filled and fullness.
What does this mean?
I'm gonna borrow from a hero of mine, his name is Martin Lloyd Jones, and he wrote a commentary, and I'm just gonna read it right from the commentary.
This is one of the, in my mind, one of the greatest Bible teachers theologians that, in the last 100 years, he says this, he says, what does this all mean in practice?
The fullness of God, or being filled with the fullness of God.
Here's what he says.
What does it mean experimentally?
I love it already.
That's enough.
This thing costs 300 bucks.
There's eight volumes.
That's worth that.
That's how much my eight volumes of Lloyd Jones's Ephesians in my office.
You can borrow if you want.
You're saying, why does that mean so much?
Because you have to experience it.
You're saying, I don't like experience.
I just don't feel safe with that.
I don't feel safe with you using words like that.
If we're not experiencing Jesus in the gospel,
If we're not experiencing all the power of God and the fullness of God, then I'll tell you something.
I can go somewhere else to get a fullness.
I can go somewhere else and get an experience.
Lloyd Jones is gonna say, we need to experience Christianity.
We need to go there.
It means that God dwells in us in such a way as to control us and all of our faculties.
Indeed, biological inevitability, God controls the whole of our life
He controls our thinking, our feelings, and our outward actions.
Man must be thought of in ever terms of his mind, his heart, and his will.
If we are filled with all the fullness of God, it means that God is controlling us in the mind, the realm of cognition, in the heart, the feelings, the sensibilities, and in the realm of the will, the outward actions and all of our activities.
This means first and foremost that our thinking is dominated by God and by the mind of God."
End quote.
The field with the fullness of God is that you are dominated.
You are controlled.
Let me say that like this, this might freak some people out.
You're possessed.
that my thinking isn't my thinking anymore.
My words aren't my words anymore.
My actions aren't my actions anymore.
My attitudes aren't my attitude.
I am so filled with the fullness of God that I am walking in a place that is supernatural.
This is what he's talking about here.
Experiential Christianity.
Let me give you three principles out of the text.
Now the text is this.
For this reason, verse 14, I bow my knees before the Father, there's the prayer, for whom every family in heaven and on earth is named.
That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through the spirit, his spirit, pardon me, in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith that you being rooted and grounded in love may have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth, the length, the height, and the depth,
and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.
That's the vision.
What's the vision ultimately for cross-way milford, for cross-way across the board?
What is it to be filled with the fullness of God?
Is it great that all of our campuses are growing numerically?
Is it great that people are being baptized and meeting Jesus?
Yes.
Is it great that our finances, and you can look at the impact report, there's some in the back there,
You can also get it online.
We're $100,000 in the black.
That's wonderful as a church.
But it's more than that.
And if Pastor Dave was here speaking on my behalf here in this pulpit, he would say, it's to be filled with the fullness of God experientially.
So here's the text.
I'm gonna give you three applications, then we'll close.
When we are filled with the fullness of God, number one, it's when we are submitting to the Holy Spirit.
That's verse 16.
Go back to the text for this reason.
I bow my knees before the Father for whom every family in heaven on earth is named.
That's in history, Paul saying, those in heaven, those on the earth, those in the past, those in the present, those in the future.
That's where he's going with that statement.
That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit.
There is no power apart from the Holy Spirit.
There is no power unless you and I submit to the Holy Spirit.
Has anybody ever chafed against the Holy Spirit before?
Do you know what I mean?
Like the Holy Spirit's trying to do something in your life, trying to say, don't do that, but you do it anyway.
Come on, don't leave me alone up here.
That's embarrassing if I'm by myself up here.
It happens all the time.
And it's going to happen more and more if you really want to make an impact for Christ.
Now, if you just want to kind of, you know, flake off over here a little bit and not be a threat to the devil, then you're not going to be going through this kind of stuff.
But if you really want to live the fullness of God, then you're going to battle some stuff in the flesh against demons, against the devil possibly, more likely not him.
This is real stuff.
But the submitting to the Holy Spirit, imagine this.
Let me just get you thinking on this.
Imagine a limitless supply of money in your bank account.
Isn't that wonderful?
You're like, keep preaching that.
I like this kind of preaching.
Hold on.
Imagine that you can buy anything that you wanted in every time that you bought and never affected how much it was your bank account.
It never went down.
It's just limitless.
Now, remember to the riches of his glory, Paul says in the prayer, to the riches of his glory, Ephesus was in the richest region of the Roman Empire.
He says that intentionally on purpose.
Because although you lived in this Ephesian Christians, there is richness that is beyond, beyond what you were experiencing in Ephesus.
But he talks about this glory, the riches of his glory.
That's the beauty of God.
That's the perfection.
That's the wisdom.
That's the truth of God.
It's his otherness.
God is other than us.
Not the same.
The otherness of God.
No faults, no sins, no mistakes, no failures.
That's God.
I can't tell you how many times I've failed.
How many mistakes have made?
But not God.
Perfection.
That's His glory.
He talks about this power, this strength by the spirit, this power that's in us.
I was on a boat this past week.
It was one of those speed boats.
You do water skiing and wakeboarding and all of that.
I had never done that before.
In fact, I don't think I've ever been on a boat that fast.
I'm kind of at the age now where pontoon boats are the thing.
Right?
You just go out there.
You just kind of hanging out.
You got your lemonade, you know, and you're getting some rays.
Man, I was on that boat.
It was John Hubbard's boat.
I'll just drop a name.
And he invited me to do all the waters.
It was just fun.
It was really, really fun.
But when he took that throttle, whatever he did, and that thing just started moving down that, I was just like holding on.
You know, I was like, whoa, this is power.
This is power.
Take, if you would bring that up, Jackie, that next image, look at the power that must be behind the rocket, the space shuttle boat.
Can you imagine how much power?
I was in Hoover Dam, actually.
I took a tour, and I was in the turbines.
underneath all of that, and it was just immense power to bring water to Southern California.
You know Hoover Dam is really feeding Southern California and Arizona.
If there's no Hoover Dam, then you got issues with survival in those regions.
You know how much power is in those turbines?
Let's talk about this power.
This is important.
The Bible says here in this prayer that it's according to, that's an important little word there, according to,
This is the Holy Spirit.
If you can bring up Acts chapter one, because we're going to talk a little bit about the Spirit, I'll move quicker, but you will receive power, Luke says.
When the Holy Spirit has come upon you, Holy Spirit was coming upon them at Pentecost.
We're probably not going to repeat Pentecost historically, correct?
That was like a one and done.
I said that years ago, and I had people get up and walk out.
My Pentecostal brothers and sisters, they just got up.
They said, that's it done.
Historically, it can't be repeated.
But practically and applicationally, I really believe there can be application to what has happened at Pentecost.
The Holy Spirit can come upon you.
You ever had that happen to you?
All of a sudden you're like, I don't know what's going on here.
I'm feeling empowered.
I feel like I can say things that I couldn't normally say.
I feel like I'm being used of God in ways that I'm not normally used.
What is that?
That's the Holy Spirit has come upon you.
It goes on.
And you will be witnesses in Jerusalem.
Oh, if you can go back, I'm sorry.
You'll be witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth.
There's impact.
Now you can go.
Thank you, Jackie, to the next slide.
When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were together in one place.
Very important for me together.
Thank you for coming back from vacation.
Next time, bring me with you, will you?
Come on.
So they're together.
There's an importance to being together.
Don't be a Christian out there just watching on Zoom or online.
Well, I don't want to be with the fellowship.
I don't want to be with the community.
I don't want to be with the body.
That's not God's plan.
It's not.
There's something powerful that happens when you and I are together.
We see that here.
They're together in one place.
Suddenly there came from heaven, a sound like a mighty rushing wind.
Let's listen for it.
Can you imagine something like that happening now?
Could it happen?
Yes or no?
I agree.
And it filled the entire house where they were sitting and divided tongues as the fire appeared to them and rested on each one of them.
And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit.
filled with the fullness of God.
Filled with the fullness of God is the spirit of God inside of us to full measure.
That means you and I have to submit to the Holy Spirit.
Number one, that's what Paul's talking about in his prayer.
He's trying to get them to the place where they submit constantly to the spirit.
How many people did not submit to the spirit this past week?
Let's have public confession.
Yeah, thank you, man.
Serious.
Yeah, it happens all the time.
It's hard.
It's not easy.
It's not easy at all.
Let me give you an illustration here.
I'm going to use some milk jugs.
Now, this is awesome.
You got to get this.
It goes off the shelves at every grocery store.
It's almond milk, chocolate milk, dark chocolate.
And then we have Tony Field organic milk.
So we got regular milk, which I don't drink too much anymore.
I drink more chocolate milk because I remember Nestle's quick.
And I used to eat it plain.
Remember the powder?
You just get a big spoonful.
That's what I used to do.
So this is what I love.
This is going to be the Holy Spirit.
This is what I don't love as much, and this is going to be the flesh.
So when you go, when I go, we're running out of there.
And don't you hate when somebody, you go to the refrigerator and somebody leaves the melt carton in there with just a drop.
And you're excited about a bowl of cereal at 10 o'clock at night, and you go to the fridge and you take it out and you're like, really?
Really?
Are you one of those guys?
One of those girls.
So if you want to be filled or have a full, you have to go where?
Where would I get another one of these?
The grocery store, right?
We have to go back to the source.
Do you know what happens?
We are just not going there.
Some of you are not going there.
And I'm talking about this relationship, this personal relationship with the Holy Spirit.
I had people through the years say, I don't know about the Holy Spirit.
I don't know as much as the baptism of the Holy Spirit.
Some of these people were like, what are you talking about?
And they said, I'm open to that.
And then they said, and what happened?
We read it in the text.
Paul laid hands on them and the Holy Spirit came upon them.
And they began to speak in tongues.
The Holy Spirit is in all of us that are believers.
Don't quench them.
I quenched him.
I'm publicly announcing this, right in front of all you guys.
I quenched him and I grieved him recently.
Do you know what happened after that?
Lost my joy.
Peace of God, not there.
A little bit more agitated and ornery.
Does it happen to anybody?
What do you do?
How do you get back?
Submit.
There it is, fullness of God.
All of a sudden, I'm not like, oh, no, it's nothing there.
It's like, wow, okay, it's full.
I went to the source.
I'll move faster through the other two points, but I do have to mention this.
Submission's not an easy thing.
It's not an easy thing to submit, even to the Holy Spirit.
Here's how I'm gonna illustrate it.
I absolutely and completely loathe traffic lights.
especially on the D.W., the Daniel Webster.
Anybody with me?
If you get out of the rhythm on the Daniel Webster, you will lose your salvation.
I promise you.
At least I thought I did, since I've moved here multiple times.
I'm like, I'm not in the rhythm.
I'm hitting every red light.
Every red light.
But if you're in the rhythm of green lights, you're just filled with the Holy Spirit.
You got joy, unspeakable, and full of glory.
I hate the Daniel Webster.
I just, I can't stand it.
It just drives me nuts.
But if there's a red light, what do I have to do to the red light?
Everybody?
Well, I'm using 0.1.
Submit.
I have to submit to the red light.
If I don't submit to the red light, then what happens?
When I get pulled over by a police officer, then I have another decision to make.
Am I going to do what?
Submit to the authority to the police officer.
And if I say, you know what, I don't want to submit to the police officer.
Then what happens?
Ultimately.
But no, I'm just kidding.
So next you're going to submit to who?
A judge.
And you're saying, well, I don't want to submit to the judge.
OK, then you have one final opportunity.
And you're going to have to submit to then who?
The warden.
Submission is everywhere.
It's everywhere in our culture.
God has built into our lives submission.
It's just the way it is.
But you talk about it today and it's like, well, I want my authority.
I want my autonomy.
I want my independence.
Not with God.
Not with His ways, because His ways are perfect.
We all have to submit to the Holy Spirit.
That's how you get filled with the fullness of God.
I hope this makes sense.
I hope it's application to you.
Romans 8, can you bring that up, please?
Romans 8, look at this.
Therefore, there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ.
In order that the righteous requirement law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.
Notice the word walk.
For those who live, walk and live, walk and live, lifestyle, according to the flesh, set their minds on the things of the flesh.
But those who live according to the spirit set their what?
Their minds on the things of the spirit.
Very important.
Number two, I'll go quicker.
When we are separating from sin, verse 17, verse, or A, 17A, the beginning of it, we are separating from sin.
So we're submitting to the spirit, we're separating from sin.
Okay, this is where people are gonna fall asleep on me or tune out or write me an email or do something.
This is the unpopular part of preaching, but I'm gonna do it anyway, okay?
Thank you for the one person that just came in.
Here's what the verse says.
Notice, verse 17, where are my Ephesians 3, 17?
It says this, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith.
Stop there, that's all I want.
Just that one statement.
Here's the word, I'm gonna go Greek on you, would I go Greek?
It's Chibani time, because the New Testament was written in Greek,
There's nothing in here.
People ask me all the time.
But I want to go Greek on you.
Katoy keo.
Don't have to worry about pronouncing that.
Not a big deal.
It means this.
Down home.
To be at home.
To settle down.
This is what that word dwell.
When Paul prays that it says it right there.
We just read it.
That he would dwell.
That's important.
That he would dwell in your heart.
That's kata keo.
This is a family member.
This is inhabiting a space in such a way that you're comfortable, that you're at home.
Now, follow me on this.
There was a paper written, it's a great, great read by Robert Munger, my heart Christ's home.
And he says this, Robert Munger said, my heart Christ's home.
In the library, which is the mind, Jesus finds trash and all sorts of worth those things, which he proceeds to throw out and replace with his word.
In the dining room,
of appetite.
He finds many different kinds, sinful desires listed on a worldly menu.
He goes through the living room of fellowship where he finds many worldly companions and activities through the workshop where he only finds toys, then on to the entire house, the closet where hidden sins are kept, and so on through the entire home.
Only when he has cleaned every room, closet and corner of sin and foolishness,
Could he settle down and be at home?"
End quote.
The title, My Heart, Christ's Home.
The Lord isn't comfortable in anybody's home where there's not holiness.
He's not comfortable in our heart if there's not holiness inside.
Imagine a house not cleaned on a regular basis.
When you go to a hotel, do you not want a clean hotel to stay in?
Right?
Now I went to a hotel once, and I went to go to bed, and I pulled back the sheets, and there were Cheetos in the bed.
Now I'm all for Cheetos, if they're packaged, and they're sitting over on the table, and they're like, this is hospitable.
You get those little packages with the water, and the Cheetos, or chips, or whatever.
I'm good with that.
But don't put Cheetos in my bed.
And so we pulled the Cheetos back.
There they are.
What did we do?
We separated ourselves from it.
It's the same thing spiritually.
There has to be a cleaning of the house.
There has to be a cleaning of the heart.
Jesus needs to settle into our home.
He needs to dwell there.
And he will not dwell where it's unclean.
You talk about somebody that has OCD in a righteous way.
It's Jesus.
Here's an image on the screen here.
When I used to watch this show, you'll be familiar with this home.
Are you familiar with that home?
Anybody recognize it?
You have to be over a certain age, right?
You're like, oh, yeah.
I want to live there.
So when I was a kid, I would watch the show, The Brady Bunch, and this is that house.
Not long ago, they renovated and sold it.
I'm thinking to myself, I would love to buy that.
But in California and that house, that was a little bit beyond my budget.
But I remember watching this program and just visualizing myself in the living room, in the heart.
I mean, this is as a kid.
I'm like, I want to go there.
I want to have that as my home.
Jesus is saying the same thing.
I just want to make a home where you live.
But I can only do that if you separate from sin.
If there's a cleansing, can we look at it like this?
Point number one is committing.
There needs to be commitment to the spirit.
Number two is a cleansing.
Let's let Jesus make a home in our lives, right?
And you say things like this, Lord, is my house clean?
Is my living room clean?
Is my closets cleaned out?
Is my work space cleaned out?
Is my bedroom cleaned out?
Is everything clean, Lord?
Do you want to come in like the Brady house and just have a wonderful experience?
That's what we talked to him about.
Everybody needs a detox, right?
Our bodies need detoxing.
I used to work at GNC and there was detox materials there that were locked up.
You're not allowed to sell detox to people that come in because they want a detox or they can pass a drug test.
They said, if somebody comes in and they say, hey, we want a detox, I say, what's the purpose?
They said, well, we want a pass a drug that we can't sell you that man.
People freaked out all over me.
They had put things in their life, right?
Right?
Just like you and I can.
Maybe not drugs, but other stuff.
We still need detoxing.
We need cleansing constantly.
All of us do.
Let me go to number three with you.
And finally, when we are seeking the love of God, this is 17b down to verse 19.
I want to refer to this application as comprehending, as a comprehension of the love of God.
And they could not comprehend the love of God, not in 50 different deities and pagans and Ephesus.
They couldn't do it.
They would think, well, a God that wants to be personal with me that loves me on a real intimate level, they just couldn't comprehend that in Ephesus.
Their deities were far removed.
So Paul says, now I'm gonna pray for you to have a comprehension that God really loves you, that he's right there with you, that he's close to you, that he wants relationship with you.
This is Paul's prayer.
This is the vision that these people would comprehend these things.
He uses two words here, rooted and grounded, which are interesting.
Of course, it's an agricultural environment that they're familiar with and also grounded would be a foundational construction metaphor.
And so as they're walking and through Ephesus, they would see the temple of Artemis and all of these columns and incredible things that Caesar and others had built.
And when Paul says that grounded, that would be, in their mind, foundation.
How can I be sustained that's agricultural, rooted?
How can I grow and be sustained?
And how can I have a firm foundation?
So in their mind, they're thinking this.
And so when Paul says, this is found in the love of God.
I can't tell you how many Christians through the years have struggled in their growth because they're not comprehending how much God loves them.
True?
And you talk with that?
I just can't see how God loves me.
Because I've always felt unloved.
I had a dad and he did this.
I had a mom.
And this is what happened.
And then you get born again and you're like, you're still trying to comprehend how much God loves you.
And He does.
It's a perfect, wonderful love.
He wants the Ephesian Christians to know this and to grow in this.
It's very important to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge He prayed, that surpasses knowledge.
All comprehension is intentional.
Now, watch this because I got a book up here.
It's a book by John MacArthur who went to heaven just recently.
It's called the love of God.
I read this some time ago.
To read this, I had to be intentional.
I had to buy it.
And then when I bought it, then I opened it up and I spent time in it.
And I'm reading it and highlighting it and praying over it.
Comprehension has to be a choice.
You're going to have to say, God, I want to understand your love for me more.
I want you to show me.
The text says the height, the depth, the breadth.
Remember that?
That's not in some manuscripts, that phrase seems to be taken from the Ephesian culture.
Paul, again, is using it.
So it's very wise how he's doing this.
Of course, that's the spirit, giving him that empowerment.
But that would have been understandable to the Ephesian, again, mindset.
So he brings it in and talks about the love of God, the heights and the depths and the breadth of it.
It's a beautiful thing.
So you make a choice.
Who is going to say, you know, all right, God, I need you to show me.
how much you love me, because I really don't feel it.
I really don't understand it deeply.
Committing to the Holy Spirit, cleansing by the Holy Spirit, comprehension of the love of God.
I'm gonna ask you, and somebody can volunteer, put your hand up, if you were willing to read this book.
Anybody?
Okay, right there.
Let me give it to you.
And Lord, I pray in Jesus' name that this book is gonna touch
This dear lady and transform her.
Intentional comprehension is always that.
God, I'm moving towards you.
I want to learn.
I want to grow.
I need you to show me.
I need you to speak to me.
I need you to help me to feel your presence.
All of that is so very important.
Amen.
Conclusion.
Wow, this went long.
I apologize.
I just love talking about these things.
It's so needful, so needful.
There's an impact report I mentioned to you that the vision is just amazing across, that's why we're here, because God led us here.
Thank you for having my wife Lisa and I.
We just love, people ask us all the time, how are things going?
Are you settled in?
What do you like?
What do you love, all that kind of thing?
We just love everything.
And we love all of you.
Even though we don't know most of you and you, I would know your name.
Please help us, we have a meeting right after this for all new people.
Just gonna be down here for 15 minutes called context, step one.
Maybe we'll have a chance to talk more and hang out a little bit more.
You can opportunity pick one of these up.
This is incredible.
This is well done.
This is done by our very own Garrett Rockefeller and others on our team.
And he just talks about what God has done in here.
And there's wonderful picture statistics on how much God has blessed this church, not just upon, but here at this campus and also downtown.
So you'll read through all of this.
At the end, it just shows some more of the financial
Blessings that God has done.
But the heart of our church leadership and the heart of our culture is that we would be filled with the fullness of God.
That's it.
People ask me all the time, what's the vision?
We need vision.
I got so many vision books in there.
You can go in there and look at them if you want.
And I like them.
And I've preached on vision.
But I'm going to tell you, of all the years of ministry, the vision that God has given Dave Ripper and this church,
is by far the most biblical I have ever seen.
Be filled with the fullness of God.
Be filled with the experientially.
That this coming year, this ministry year, we're going to be walking with God in ways that we never thought we could have walked with them.
There's going to be deliverances.
There's going to be healings.
There's going to be reconciliation.
There's going to be things that are going to happen in the supernatural.
But we have to move through these principles.
Submission.
separate yourself from sin and seek the love of God.
And you'll be filled with the fullness of God.
One last thought.
Whatever happened to the church in Ephesus, does anybody know?
Well, you can go to Revelation's chapter two, not now.
Jesus is walking amongst them as the candlestick.
It says the candlestick, that's a reference to Jesus.
And he's walking amongst the churches in Asia Minor, the ones I just quoted a little bit, Pergamum, Smyrna, Laodicea, and he's evaluating all of them.
And he gets to the church in Ephesus and he says some really great things.
You've endured, you've persevered, you did the works of God, but this one thing I have against you.
Do you remember what it is?
They lost their first love.
That's not good.
Father, we pray that you would help us.
We need you desperately, as we sang earlier, depend.
We depend on you.
We can't do this without you.
You want to do far more, far more than we could ever ask or think.
And that's just not about attendance.
That's just not about numbers of money and finances and buildings and all of that.
The far more is an experience with you, a fullness of God that you would fill us.
to capacity as Lloyd Jones, that every faculty that we have, our mind, what we look at, how we talk, our attitudes, our actions, our will, every part of us is consumed by you.
But help us to be honest.
And if we haven't submitted to the Holy Spirit, forgive us, Holy Spirit.
Can we just say that to the Spirit, forgive me.
I'm sorry, Holy Spirit.
Help us to separate from sin, starting today.
and then help us to seek to understand and comprehend the love of God.
Thank you for what you've done.
Thank you for what you're going to do.
So much more is coming.
So much more.
Glory to your name.
And it's in the name of Jesus.
We pray.
Amen.
God bless you.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Middleford campus sermon podcast.
If you like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at crosswayscc.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.